.TH YJUMP 1 "2024" "yjump 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
yjump \- fast window switcher for macOS with fuzzy search
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yjump
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B yjump
is a fast window switcher for macOS that allows you to quickly jump to any window of any application on any workspace. It provides a fuzzy search interface similar to rofi on Linux/i3, enabling you to type parts of a window name or title to quickly locate and switch to it.
.PP
When invoked,
.B yjump
displays a search input box. As you type, a list of matching windows appears below the input, filtered in real-time. The list updates instantly as you continue typing. Use arrow keys to select a window and press Return to activate it.
.SH FEATURES
.TP
.B Fuzzy Search
Type any part of window titles or application names. The search matches substrings and scores results, showing the best matches first.
.TP
.B Live Filtering
Window list updates in real-time as you type, showing only matching windows.
.TP
.B Cross-Workspace
Find and switch to windows across all macOS Spaces/workspaces.
.TP
.B Themeable
Customize colors, fonts, size, and position via configuration file.
.TP
.B Keyboard-Driven
Entirely keyboard-driven interface for maximum efficiency:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Type to search and filter
.IP \(bu 2
Up/Down arrows to navigate results
.IP \(bu 2
Return/Enter to activate selected window
.IP \(bu 2
Escape to cancel
.RE
.SH USAGE
Launch
.B yjump
from the terminal or bind it to a global hotkey for quick access:
.PP
.nf
.RS
$ yjump
.RE
.fi
.PP
Once the interface appears:
.IP 1. 3
Start typing part of the window title or application name
.IP 2. 3
The window list appears and filters in real-time as you type
.IP 3. 3
Use Up/Down arrows to select a window from the list
.IP 4. 3
Press Return to activate the selected window, or Escape to cancel
.SH KEYBOARD SHORTCUTS
.TP
.B Up Arrow
Move selection up in the window list
.TP
.B Down Arrow
Move selection down in the window list
.TP
.B Return/Enter
Activate the selected window and quit
.TP
.B Escape
Quit without switching windows
The window list appears and filters in real-time as you type
.IP 3. 3
Use Up/Down arrows to select a window from the list
.IP 4. 3
Press Return to activate the selected window, or Escape to cancel
.SH KEYBOARD SHORTCUTS
.TP
.B Up Arrow
Move selection up in the window list
.TP
.B Down Arrow
Move selection down in the window list
.TP
.B Return/Enter
Activate the selected window and quit
.TP
.B Escape
Quit without switching windows
.SH CONFIGURATION
.B yjump
can be customized via a configuration file. The file is searched for in the following locations (in order):
.PP
.nf
.RS
$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/yjump/yjump.conf
~/.config/yjump/yjump.conf
~/.yjump.conf
.RE
.fi
.PP
An example configuration file is provided in the repository at
.I conf/yjump.conf
and is installed to
.I ~/.config/yjump/yjump.conf
during installation.
.SS Configuration Options
.TP
.B window_width = 600
Width of the search window in pixels
.TP
.B window_height = 50
Height of the search window in pixels
.TP
.B background_color = #2E3440
Background color in hex format
.TP
.B text_color = #ECEFF4
Text color in hex format
.TP
.B placeholder_color = #4C566A
Placeholder text color in hex format
.TP
.B selection_color = #5E81AC
Selection/highlight color in hex format
.TP
.B border_color = #3B4252
Border color in hex format
.TP
.B border_width = 2
Border width in pixels
.TP
.B corner_radius = 8
Corner radius for rounded corners in pixels
.TP
.B font_name = Menlo
Font family name
.TP
.B font_size = 16
Font size in points
.TP
.B max_results = 10
Maximum number of results to consider
.TP
.B case_sensitive = false
Enable case-sensitive search (true/false)
.TP
.B position = center
Window position: center, top, bottom, or x,y coordinates (e.g., 100,100)
.TP
.B cache_window_list = true
Enable window list caching for faster performance (true/false)
.TP
.B cache_timeout_seconds = 2.0
How long to cache the window list in seconds before refreshing
.SH PERMISSIONS
.B yjump
requires Accessibility permissions to function properly. On first run, macOS will prompt you to grant these permissions. You can also enable them manually:
.PP
.nf
.RS
System Preferences → Security & Privacy → Privacy → Accessibility
.RE
.fi
.PP
Add
.B yjump
(or your terminal emulator) to the list of allowed applications.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Search for a Chrome window:
Type "chrome" to see all Chrome windows, use arrows to select, press Return
.TP
Search for a specific document:
Type part of the document name, e.g., "readme", use arrows to select, press Return
.TP
Quick switch to Terminal:
Type "term", use arrows if multiple matches, press Return
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.local/bin/yjump
The installed executable
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/man/man1/yjump.1
This manual page
.TP
.I ~/.config/yjump/yjump.conf
User configuration file
.TP
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/yjump/yjump.conf
Alternative configuration location
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B yjump
does not use any environment variables.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Window successfully activated or user cancelled
.TP
.B 1
Error occurred (e.g., missing permissions)
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 2
Very small windows (< 50x50 pixels) are filtered out as they're likely not actual application windows
.IP \(bu 2
System windows like "Window Server" and "Dock" are excluded from the list
.IP \(bu 2
The search is case-insensitive by default
.IP \(bu 2
macOS has limitations on window title access - some applications (Chrome, Safari, Edge, Arc) don't expose individual window/tab titles for security reasons
.IP \(bu 2
Firefox, Terminal, and many text editors do provide window titles
.IP \(bu 2
yjump will show window titles when available via the Accessibility API, otherwise just the application name
.IP \(bu 2
Even with Accessibility permissions enabled, some applications simply don't provide window title information
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR open (1),
.BR osascript (1)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to: https://github.com/skybert/yjump/issues
.SH AUTHOR
AUTHORS_FILE_CONTENTS
.SH COPYRIGHT
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
